Added a new concept Data Transformations (#6181)
Codecademy/docs: content/pytorch/concepts/data-transformations/data-transformations.md

---
Title: 'Data Transformations'
Description: 'Data transformation in PyTorch involves manipulating datasets into the appropriate format for model training, improving performance and accuracy.'
Subjects:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Neural Networks'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-py-torch-and-neural-networks'
  - 'py-torch-for-classification'
---

**Data transformation** in PyTorch is an essential process for preparing datasets before feeding them into machine learning models. This process includes a range of techniques that manipulate the raw data into formats that are more suitable for training, testing, and validation. Data transformation ensures that the model receives data in a standardized way, which can improve training efficiency and model performance.

## Common Data Transformations in PyTorch

> - **Normalization and Standardization:** These transformations adjust the data scale so that each feature contributes equally during training. Normalization rescales the data between a defined range (e.g., 0 to 1), while standardization centers the data around zero with unit variance.
> - **Resizing Images:** When dealing with image data, it's important to ensure all images have the same size. Using transformations like `Resize` ensures consistency across images.
> - **Augmentation:** Data augmentation techniques like rotation, flipping, and cropping introduce variability into the dataset, helping prevent overfitting and improving the model's generalization.
> - **Tensor Conversion:** PyTorch models expect data to be in tensor format, so the transformation of raw data (e.g., images, text) into tensors using `torch.tensor()` is a crucial step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Normalization and Standardization:** These transformations adjust the data scale so that each feature contributes equally during training. Normalization rescales the data between a defined range (e.g., 0 to 1), while standardization centers the data around zero with unit variance.
- **Resizing Images:** When dealing with image data, it's important to ensure all images have the same size. Using transformations like `Resize` ensures consistency across images.
- **Augmentation:** Data augmentation techniques like rotation, flipping, and cropping introduce variability into the dataset, helping prevent overfitting and improving the model's generalization.
- **Tensor Conversion:** PyTorch models expect data to be in tensor format, so transforming raw data (e.g., images, text) into tensors using `torch.tensor()` is a crucial step.
```
